# MasterThesis
Scripts for the master's thesis

The major depressive disorder is one of the most common mental diseases occurring among people. The most common symptoms of the depression are reduced mood and self-esteem, difficulties in concentration, loss of appetite and sleep disorders. The standard treatment of depression involves pharmacological therapy. The cognitive-behavioural program is a new, non-invasive alternative that currently is gaining more and more attention.

In my thesis, I examine the influence of eight-week mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) on people with depression. The quantitative results were collected with the use of questionnaires and the measurement of EEG signal. I have tested the hypothesis of asymmetry of the alpha rhythm among people with the lowered mood reported. In the first stage, I examined the hypothesis if there is any difference between the healthy people and the people with depression noticeable in the characteristics of the alpha rhythm or in the questionnaire indices. I carried out additional analysis to evaluate the differences between the control group and the group that passed the MBCT therapy. The questionnaire data confirmed the correct division of patients to groups. The main part of analysis regards the beneficial changes in the examined groups measured with HADS and CESD tests and EEG signal on people with diagnosed depression. I compared the data obtained after 8 weeks in both groups with the data from the healthy people to see if the therapy results in bringing the indices towards the level of the healthy group.

The therapy improves the mood of the MBCT program participants with the diagnosed depression. I obtained that healthy people exhibit a greater difference in alpha rhythm power between the hemispheres than people with depression. I observed a decrease in the value of alpha rhythm asymmetry for the people after mindfulness training.

To sum up, in the questionnaire data I received a positive effect of the therapy on people with depression by improving their mood, in contrast with the control group. Changes in EEG characteristics were observed, however, the measure of the asymmetry is not correlated with the levels of depression as measured by the questionnaires.
